---
date: 2008-11-04 12:51:11.620632
title: 
tags:
---
<h3>Solving Things</h3>
<b>Graffiti</b>: let ivy climb all over places where graffiti is a problem. I assume that since there are many old buildings with ivy all over them that it doesn't rot the concrete/brick/mortar away. Nobody would bother to paint on an ivy covered wall. Problem solved.<br /><br /><b>Inner-City Congestion</b>: golf carts. People need their own transportation. Buses and trains don't cut it. Scooters, bikes, and Segways don't cut it. People need to dress their cars up, paint them, put obnoxious stereos and trinkets in them. They need to be able to take grandma to the grocery store and pick a few things up. Carry people, carry stuff from the store, etc.<br /><br />Golf carts solve all these needs. They're simple, cheap, run on electricity and old common technology. They don't tear up the roads, collisions won't be that bad, pedestrians won't get killed when getting clocked by a golf cart - the benefits are endless. Movie studio lots have been doing this for some time and beach communities have been doing it as well, with great success from what I can tell. Inner cities need to get with the program.<br /><br />Caveats: taxes and regulation. City officials would love to tax and regulate them to death and would likely stillbirth this thing before it ever got going.<br /><br /><b>Employee Retention: </b>Give employees who have been there over a certain period of time, their own special parking space near the front of the building.<br />